There are three different cloud deployment models: Public Cloud, Private Cloud, and Hybrid Cloud. 
A cloud deployment model defines where your data is stored and how your customers interact with it




PUBLIC
------

A public cloud is owned by the cloud services provider (also known as a hosting provider).
It provides resources and services to multiple organizations and users, who connect to the cloud service via a secure network connection, typically over the internet.

Ownership - Ownership refers to the resources that an organization or end user uses. Examples include storage and processing power.
Resources do not belong to the organization that is utilizing them, but rather they are owned and operated by a third party, such as the cloud service provider.

Multiple end users - Public cloud modes may make their resources available to multiple organizations.
Public access - Public access allows the public to access the desired cloud services.
Availability - Public cloud is the most common cloud-type deployment model.
Connectivity - Users and organizations are typically connected to the public cloud over the internet using a web browser.
Skills - Public clouds do not require deep technical knowledge to set up and use its resources.


With a public cloud, there is no local hardware to manage or keep up to date;
everything runs on the cloud provider’s hardware. In some cases, 
cloud users can save additional costs by sharing computing resources with other cloud users.


A common use case scenario is deploying a web application or a blog site on hardware and resources that are owned by a cloud provider. 
Using a public cloud in this scenario allows cloud users to get their website/blog up and running quickly, 
and then focus on maintaining the site without having to worry about purchasing, managing, or maintaining the hardware on which it runs.




PRIVATE
-------

A private cloud is owned and operated by the organization that uses the resources from that cloud.
They create a cloud environment in their own datacenter and provide self-service access to compute resources to users within their organization. 
The organization remains the owner, entirely responsible for the operation of the services they provide.

Ownership. The owner and user of the cloud services are the same.

Hardware. The owner is entirely responsible for the purchase, maintenance, and management of the cloud hardware.

Users. A private cloud operates only within one organization and cloud computing resources are used exclusively by a single business or organization.

Connectivity. A connection to a private cloud is typically made over a private network that is highly secure.

Public access. Does not provide access to the public.

Skills. Requires deep technical knowledge to set up, manage, and maintain.


A use case scenario for a private cloud would be when an organization has data that cannot be put in the public cloud, 
perhaps for legal reasons. For example, they may have medical data that cannot be exposed publicly.


A private cloud can provide cloud functionality to external customers as well, 
or to specific internal departments such as Accounting or Human Resources.




HYBRID
------

A hybrid cloud combines both public and private clouds, allowing you to run your applications in the most appropriate location.

Resource location. Specific resources run or are used in a public cloud, and others run or are used in a private cloud.
Cost and efficiency. Hybrid cloud models allow an organization to leverage some of the benefits of cost, efficiency, and scale that are available with a public cloud model.
Control. Organizations retain management control in private clouds.
Skills. Technical skills are still required to maintain the private cloud and ensure both cloud models can operate together.



An example of a hybrid cloud usage scenario would be hosting a website in the public cloud and linking it to a highly secure database hosted in a private cloud.

