Azure compute
=============

Azure compute  is an on-demand computing service for running cloud-based applications. 
It provides computing resources such as disks, processors, memory, networking and operating systems.


The resources are available on-demand and can typically be made available in minutes or even seconds. 
You pay only for the resources you use and only for as long as you're using them.

There are many compute services two of the most common are: virtual machines and containers.




Azure Compute Services
----------------------


Virtual machines (VMs) are software emulations of physical computers. 
They include a virtual processor, memory, storage, and networking resources. 
VMs host an operating system, and you're able to install and run software just like a physical computer. 
When using a remote desktop client, you can use and control the virtual machine as if you were sitting in front it.




Explore Azure virtual machines
-------------------------------
Azure virtual machines  let you create and use virtual machines in the cloud. 
It provides IaaS and can be used in a variety of different ways. 
When you need total control over an operating system and environment, Azure VMs are an ideal choice. 
Just like a physical computer, you're able to customize all the software running on the VM. 
This ability is helpful when you are running custom software or custom hosting configurations.





Virtual machine scale sets
--------------------------
Virtual machine scale sets  are an Azure compute resource that you can use to deploy and manage a set of identical VMs. 
With all VMs configured the same, virtual machine scale sets are designed to support true autoscale; no pre-provisioning of VMs is required; 
and as such makes it easier to build large-scale services targeting big compute, big data, and containerized workloads. 
So, as demand goes up more virtual machine instances can be added, and as demand goes down virtual machines instances can be removed. 
The process can be manual, automated, or a combination of both.





App services
------------

With App services , you can quickly build, deploy, and scale enterprise-grade web, mobile, and API apps running on any platform. 
You can meet rigorous performance, scalability, security, and compliance requirements while using a fully managed platform to perform infrastructure maintenance. 
App Services is a platform as a service (PaaS) offering.



Functions
---------

Azure Functions  are ideal when you're concerned only about the code running your service and not the underlying platform or infrastructure.
They're commonly used when you need to perform work in response to an event (often via a REST request), timer, or message from another Azure service,
and when that work can be completed quickly, within seconds or less.

